#
# $Id$
#
# This file is part of Echolot - a Pinger for anonymous remailers.
#
# Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004 Peter Palfrader <peter@palfrader.org>
#
# This program is free software. you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
# Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301 USA
#
=pod

=head1 NAME

pingd.conf - configuration file for the Echolot ping daemon

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file B<pingd.conf> sets configuration parameters for Echolot pingd(1).
It is a Perl script that gets eval()ed from within pingd. It has to set the
values in the $CONFIG hash.

=cut

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 REQUIRED OPTIONS

=over

=item B<sitename>

A short name for your site/pinger. It is used in the statistics produced.

	Default: none
	Example: 'sitename' => 'testsite',

=item B<my_localpart>

The local part of the pinger's email address.

In C<pinger@remailer.example.com> the localpart is C<pinger>.

	Default: none
	Example: 'my_localpart' => 'pinger',

=item B<my_domain>

The domain part (FQDN) of the pinger's email address.

In C<pinger@remailer.example.com> the domain part is C<remailer.example.com>.

	Default: none
	Example: 'my_domain' => 'remailer.example.com',

=item B<operator_address>

The email address of the human operator that runs this pinger.

	Default: none
	Example: 'operator_address' => 'remop@example.org',

It is used in several templates.

=back



=head2 SYSTEM SPECIFIC OPTIONS

=over

=item B<recipient_delimiter>

The B<recipient_delimiter> parameter specifies the separator between user names
and address extensions (user+foo).

If it is an empty string Echolot does not make use of user defined mailboxes
but rather encodes the message type etc in a Comment/Realname part of an
address.

The use of recipient_delimiter is strongly recommended if your MTA setup
supports it.

	Default: 'recipient_delimiter' => '+',
	Example: 'recipient_delimiter' => '-',
	         'recipient_delimiter' => '',

Example addresses:

with + as a recipient delimiter:
 pinger+conf.1=1035540778=1dd23d97@example.org

without recipient delimiter:
 pinger@example.org (conf.2=1035541597=3baa2ae5)

=item B<dev_random>

Where to read strong random data from - currently used only for generating our
secret.

	Default: 'dev_random' => '/dev/random',

=item B<dev_urandom>

Where to read weak random data from - currently used only for 
garbage generation.

	Default: 'dev_urandom' => '/dev/urandom',

=item B<sendmail>

Path to the sendmail binary. It is expected to accept the C<-f> and C<-t>
parameters.

	Default: 'sendmail' => '/usr/sbin/sendmail',
	Example: 'sendmail' => '/usr/lib/sendmail',

=back



=head2 MAGIC NUMBERS

=over

=item B<hash_len> [integer]

Echolot uses email addresses of the form C<foo+some_data=MAC@domain>. MAC
is a Message Authentication Code used to verify that the address
was actually generated by this pinger using a secret which is set
from random data the first time you run B<pingd>. Echolot uses MD5
as the MAC hash function.

B<hash_len> is the number of characters to include in the email address.

	Default: 'hash_len' => 8,
	Example: 'hash_len' => 4,

=item B<seconds_per_day> [integer]

The length of one character in reliability and latency stats.  One
character usually stands for exactly one day (hence the name of this
config option).  Changing it in production use is probably a bad idea
but shortening it might come in handy during debugging.

	Default: 'seconds_per_day' => 24*60*60,

=item B<stats_days> [integer]

How many days (or whatever you configured seconds_per_day to really be)
to have in the stats.  This is 12 days.

	Default: 'stats_days' => 12,

=back



=head2 NEW REMAILERS

=over

=item B<fetch_new> [bool]

Query new remailers for remailer-xxx replies by default.

	Default: 'fetch_new' => 1,
	Example: 'fetch_new' => 0,

=item B<ping_new> [bool]

Ping new remailers by default.

	Default: 'ping_new' => 1,
	Example: 'ping_new' => 0,

=item B<show_new> [bool]

Show new remailers in public stats by default.

	Default: 'show_new' => 1,
	Example: 'show_new' => 0,

=back



=head2 STATISTICS GENERATION

=over

=item B<separate_rlists> [bool]

Also build separate rlists with data from only DSA pings, only RSA pings and
only unencrypted pings.

	Default: 'separate_realists' => 0,
	Example: 'separate_rlists' => 1,

=item B<combined_list> [bool]

Build a combined list of all different stats too. While there is no
standard format it is nice to read for the human eye.

	Default: 'combined_list' => 0,
	Example: 'combined_list' => 1,

=item B<thesaurus> [bool]

Collect Thesaurus data and build Thesaurus Index.

	Default: 'thesaurus' => 1,
	Example: 'thesaurus' => 0,

=item B<fromlines> [bool]

Build a summary of default From: header lines and list
remailers which allow overriding them.

	Default: 'fromlines' => 1,
	Example: 'fromlines' => 0,

=item B<stats_sort_by_latency>

In the statistics output remailers are sorted by reliability as the primary key.
The secondary key is usually nickname. If you prefer to sort by latency rather
than nick set this to 1 (-1 if you want to reverse the order).

	Default: 'stats_sort_by_latency' => 0,
	Example: 'stats_sort_by_latency' => 1,


=back



=head2 TIMERS AND COUNTERS

=over

=item B<processmail> [seconds]

How often to process incoming email.

	Default: 'processmail' => 60, # every minute
	Example: 'processmail' => 5*60, # every 5 minutes

=item B<buildstats> [seconds]

How often to build mlist etc.

	Default: 'buildstats' => 5*60, # every 5 minutes
	Example: 'buildstats' => 60*60, # hourly

=item B<chainping_update> [seconds]

When building stats and we have chain pinging enabled
(see B<do_chainpings>), how often to rebuild chain stats.
This can be a CPU intensive task therefore it's not updated
every time stats are built.

	Default: 'chainping_update' => 4*60*60, # chain stats should never
						#  be older than 4 hours

=item B<buildkeys> [seconds]

How often to build keyrings.

	Default: 'buildkeys' => 8*60*60, # every 8 hours
	Example: 'buildkeys' => 24*60*60, # daily

=item B<buildthesaurus> [seconds]

How often to update thesaurus index page.

	Default: 'buildthesaurus' => 60*60, # hourly
	Example: 'buildthesaurus' => 24*60*60, # daily

=item B<commitprospectives> [seconds]

How often to check for prospective new remailer addresses and
commit them to the list of remailers.

	Default: 'commitprospectives' => 8*60*60, # every 8 hours
	Example: 'commitprospectives' => 24*60*60, # daily

=item B<expire> [seconds]

How often to expire old keys, pings and remailers

	Default: 'expire' => 24*60*60, # daily
	Example: 'expire' => 8*60*60, # every 8 hours

=item B<getkeyconf_interval> [seconds]

=item B<getkeyconf_every_nth_time> [integer]

How often to query remailers for new keys and configuration data
(remailer-xxx). Some requests are sent every B<getkeyconf_interval>
seconds. The same request to the same remailer is sent only every 
B<getkeyconf_every_nth_time> time.

	Default: 'getkeyconf_interval'       => 5*60,    # send out requests
							 #  every 5 minutes
	         'getkeyconf_every_nth_time' => 24*60/5, # send out the same
							 #  request to the same
							 #  remailer once a day
	Example: 'getkeyconf_interval'       => 10*60,
	         'getkeyconf_every_nth_time' => 2*24*60/10, # new request every
							    #  other day

=item B<check_resurrection> [seconds]

How often to check assumed dead remailers for resurrection.

	Default: 'check_resurrection' => 7*24*60*60, # weekly
	Example: 'check_resurrection' => 14*24*60*60, # every other week

=item B<pinger_interval> [seconds]

=item B<ping_every_nth_time> [integer]

How often to send pings. Pings are sent every B<pinger_interval> seconds. The
same remailer is pinged every B<ping_every_nth_time> time pings are sent (This
means the same remailer is pinged every B<pinger_interval> *
B<ping_every_nth_time> seconds).  It is done this way in order to avoid
spikes.

	Default: 'pinger_interval'     => 5*60, # send out pings every 5 minutes
	         'ping_every_nth_time' => 24,   # send out pings to the same remailer every 24 calls, i.e. every 2 hours
	Example: 'pinger_interval'     => 60,    # send out pings every minute
	         'ping_every_nth_time' => 60,    # send out pings to the same remailer every 60 calls, i.e. every hour

=item B<chainpinger_interval> [seconds]

=item B<chainping_every_nth_time> [integer]

=item B<chainping_ic_every_nth_time> [integer]

How often to send chain pings. Chain-Pings are sent every
B<chainpinger_interval> seconds.  The same chain is pinged every
B<chainping_every_nth_time> time chain-pings are sent.  Chains in
I<Intensive Care> (ic), that are chains that are either known or
believed to be bad or are not tested enough yet (see
B<chainping_minsample>), should be tested more often: They are checked
every B<chainping_ic_every_nth_time> time chain-pings are sent.

	Default: 'chainpinger_interval'        => 5*60, # send out pings every 5 minutes
	         'chainping_every_nth_time'    => 2016, # send out pings to the same chain every 2016 calls, i.e. week
	         'chainping_ic_every_nth_time' => 288,  # send out pings to broken or unknown chains every 288 calls, i.e. daily

=item B<addresses_default_ttl> [integer]

How many times to request remailer-xxx from a remailer (done every
B<getkeyconf> seconds, daily per default) without a reply before it is assumed
dead.

	Default: 'addresses_default_ttl' => 5, # getkeyconf seconds (days if getkeyconf is 24*60*60, the default)
	Example: 'addresses_default_ttl' => 7,

=item B<check_resurrection_ttl> [integer]

How many times to request remailer-xxx from an assumed dead remailer (done every
B<check_resurrection> seconds, weekly per default) without a reply before it is
really considered dead.

	Default: 'check_resurrection_ttl' => 8, # check_resurrection seconds (weeks if check_resurrection is 7*24*60*60, the default)
	Example: 'check_resurrection_ttl' => 4,

=item B<prospective_addresses_ttl> [seconds]

How long to keep information about a prospective address in the database.
Addresses that are not committed to the list of remailer addresses are
expired after this time.

	Default: 'prospective_addresses_ttl' => 5*24*60*60, # 5 days
	Example: 'prospective_addresses_ttl' =>14*24*60*60, # 2 weeks

=item B<reliable_auto_add_min> [integer]

How many different remailers need to list an address in a remailer-conf
reply to get it committed to the list of remailer addresses.

	Default: 'reliable_auto_add_min' => 6,
	Example: 'reliable_auto_add_min' => 3,

=item B<expire_keys> [seconds]

After how long to expire received keys if they were not updated by remailer-key replies.

	Default: 'expire_keys' => 5*24*60*60, # 5 days
	Example: 'expire_keys' => 7*24*60*60, # 1 week

=item B<expire_confs> [seconds]

After how long to expire received remailer-conf replies.

	Default: 'expire_confs' => 5*24*60*60, # 5 days
	Example: 'expire_confs' => 7*24*60*60, # 1 week

=item B<expire_pings> [seconds]

After how long to expire pings. 12 is the value of choice
because that is the time frame the statistics show. You should
not make this smaller than 12 days.

	Default: 'expire_pings' => 12*24*60*60, # 12 days

=item B<expire_chainpings> [seconds]

After how long to expire chain pings. This should probably
be set to the same as B<chainping_period>.

	Default: 'expire_chainpings' => 12*24*60*60, # 12 days

=item B<expire_thesaurus> [seconds]

After how long to expire files in the thesaurus directory.

	Default: 'expire_thesaurus' => 21*24*60*60, # 2 weeks
	Example: 'expire_thesaurus' => 7*24*60*60, # 1 week

=item B<expire_fromlines> [seconds]

After how long to expire header From: lines.

	Default: 'expire_fromlines' => 5*24*60*60, # 5 days
	Example: 'expire_fromlines' => 7*24*60*60, # 1 week

=item B<cleanup_tmpdir> [seconds]

How often to clean old files from the temp directory.
	Default: 'cleanup_tmpdir'   => 24*60*60, # daily

=item B<metadata_backup> [seconds]

How often to make backups of metadata and rotate them. If gzip is set, backups
are compressed.

	Default: 'metadata_backup' => 8*60*60, # 8 hours
	Example: 'metadata_backup' => 24*60*60, # daily

=item B<metadata_backup_count> [integer]

How many backups of metadata to keep.

	Default: 'metadata_backup_count' => 32, # keep the last 32 backups
	Example: 'metadata_backup_count' => 4, # keep 4 rotations

=item B<summary> [seconds]

How often to print a status summary to the log.

	Default: 'summary' => 24*60*60, # daily
	Default: 'summary' => 12*60*60, # twice a day

=back


=head2 DIRECTORIES AND FILES AND RELATED OPTIONS

=over

=item B<homedir>

The base directory of the Echolot installation. All other filenames and
directory names are local to this directory. B<pingd> changes into this
directory upon startup.

	Default: The directory in which pingd is.
	Example: 'homedir' => '/home/pinger/echolot',

=item B<mailin>

The Maildir directory or Mbox which is searched for new messages.

	Default: 'mailin' => 'mail',
	Example: 'mailin' => '/var/mail/echolot',

=item B<mailerrordir>

The Maildir directory where messages are put that could not be parsed.

	Default: 'mailerrordir' => 'mail-errors',

=item B<save_errormails> [bool]

Whether to keep error messages at all

	Default: 'save_errormails' => 0,
	Example: 'save_errormails' => 1,

=item B<resultdir>

The directory where statistics and keyrings are put.

	Default: 'resultdir' => 'results',

=item B<thesaurusdir>

The directory where Thesaurus data is put.

	Default: 'thesaurusdir' => 'results/thesaurus',

=item B<thesaurusindexfile>

The Thesaurus index file.

	Default: 'thesaurusindexfile' => 'results/thesaurus/index',

=item B<fromlinesindexfile>

The From Lines index file.

	Default: 'fromlinesindexfile' => 'results/from',

=item B<private_resultdir>

The directory where private stats and keyrings are put (Remailers that have
show set to false are shown here too).

	Default: 'private_resultdir' => 'results.private',

=item B<indexfilebasename>

The file to write the index.html to (relative to the result directory).

	Default: 'indexfilebasename' => 'echolot',
	Example: 'indexfilebasename' => 'index',

=item B<gnupghome>

The directory which is used as temporary GnuPG home for all keyring and
encryption/decryption actions.

	Default: 'gnupghome' => 'gnupghome',

=item B<gnupg>

Name of the GnuPG executable. If it is not in your PATH make sure to
include path information.

If B<gnupg> is an empty string, the C<GnuPG::Interface> default (usually B<gpg>)
is used.

	Default: 'gnupg' => '',
	Example: 'gnupg' => '/home/pinger/bin/myGnuPG',

=item B<gzip>

Name of the gzip executable. If it is not in your PATH make sure to
include path information.

	Default: 'gzip' => 'gzip',

=item B<mixhome>

The directory which is used as temporary Mixmaster home for all keyring and
encryption/decryption actions.

	Default: 'mixhome' => 'mixhome',
	Example: 'mixhome' => '/home/pinger/Mix',

=item B<mixmaster>

Name of the mixmaster executable. If it is not in your PATH make sure to
include path information.

	Default: 'mixmaster' => 'mix',
	Example: 'mixmaster' => '/home/pinger/Mix/mix',

=item B<tmpdir>

General purpose temp directory. Make sure it is not shared with other
applications.

	Default: 'tmpdir' => 'tmp',

=item B<commands_file>

A file where commands to the daemon process are stored. The client
puts commands (like add a new remailer) in it and then sends a HUP
to the daemon process which reads and empties the file.

	Default: 'commands_file' => 'commands.txt',

=item B<pidfile>

The daemon's PID file. The daemon's Process ID is stored in this file.
As long as it exists pingd refuses to start up in daemon mode.

	Default: 'pidfile' => 'pingd.pid',

=item B<broken1>

File listing broken type I remailer chains. If it does not exist, the part is
skipped in generated stats. Otherwise its content is copied in verbatim.

	Default: 'broken1' => 'broken1.txt',
	Example content:
		(havenco cmeclax)
		(frog3 nycrem)

=item B<broken2>

File listing broken type II remailer chains. If it does not exist, the part is
skipped in generated stats. Otherwise its content is copied in verbatim.

	Default: 'broken2' => 'broken2.txt',
	Example content:
		(freedom lcs)
		(* xganon)

=item B<sameop>

File listing remailers that have the same operator or share a machine or other
important infrastructure.  If it does not exist, the part is skipped in
generated stats. Otherwise its content is copied in verbatim.

	Default: 'sameop' => 'sameop.txt',
	Example content:
		(xganon2 xganon)
		(cracker redneck)

=back


=head2 LOGGING

=over

=item B<logfile>

File to write logs to.  This file is reopened on SIGHUP.

	Default: 'logfile' => 'pingd.log',
	Example: 'logfile' => '/var/log/echolot/pingd.log',

=item B<loglevel>

Minimum severity of messages to include in log file. Possible values are
B<trace>, B<debug>, B<info>, B<notice>, B<warning>, B<error>, B<critical>, B<alert>, and
B<emergency>.

	Default: 'loglevel' => 'info',
	Example: 'loglevel' => 'debug',

=back


=head2 MISCELLANEOUS

=over

=item B<write_meta_files> [bool]

Whether to write meta files for each created file. These files include
meta information for http servers and http clients like the date when
a specific page expires.

	Default: 'write_meta_files' => 1,

=item B<meta_extension>

The extension that such metafiles (see above) should have.

	Default: 'meta_extension' => '.meta',

=item B<random_garbage> [integer]

Pings usually are quite short.  Some 100 bytes are sufficient to relay
all the information that is required.  To make them not stand out that
obviously, pings are padded using random garbage of random length.

B<random_garbage> is the top limit for the amount of bytes to add.  The
actual number is randomly generated and uniformly distributed over
[0, B<random_garbage>]

	Default: 'random_garbage' => '8192',

=back

=head2 CHAIN PINGING

=over

=item B<do_chainpings> [bool]

Whether or not to do chain pings.  Chain pings test all chains
of two remailers and come up with a list of broken chains.
This produces a non-trivial amount of traffic.

	Default: 'do_chainpings' => 1,

=item B<show_chainpings> [bool]

Show the results of our chainpinging in public stats.

	Default: 'show_chainpings' => 1,

=item B<chainping_fudge>

What proportion of the expected replies derived from one-hop stats
must return before a chain is not declared broken.

	Default: 'chainping_fudge' => 0.3, # if less than 0.3 * rel1 * rel2 make it, the chain is really broken

=item B<chainping_grace>

The factor of time in addition to the guessed latency
derived from one-hop stats before a chain ping is considered lost

	Default: 'chainping_grace' => 1.5, # don't count pings sent no longer than 1.5 * (lat1 + lat2) ago

=item B<chainping_period> [seconds]

What time frame is taken into account when calculating chain stats.
This should probably be smaller than B<expire_chainpings>.

	Default: 'chainping_period' => 12*24*60*60, # 12 days

=item B<chainping_minsample> [seconds]

Have at least as many sent (and not within grace) chain pings before
declaring a chain broken.

	Default: 'chainping_minsample' => 3, # have at least sent 3 pings before judging any chain

=item B<chainping_allbad_factor>

How many chains C<(A x)> must be bad before C<(A *)> is listed.
The value is given as a proportion of all available remailers.

	Default: chainping_allbad_factor => 0.5, # at least 50% of possible chains (A x) need to fail for (A *) to be listed in broken chains

=back


=head2 PINGING TYPES

=over

=item B<do_pings>

B<do_pings> determines which ping types are sent.
It is a hash that has the following keys:

=over

=item B<cpunk-dsa>

Send out CPunk pings to CPunk remailers with their DSA key.

=item B<cpunk-rsa>

Send out CPunk pings to CPunk remailers with their RSA key.

=item B<cpunk-clear>

Send out unencrypted pings to CPunk remailers that don't have pgponly
in their capsstring.

=item B<mix>

Pings mixmaster remailers.

=back

	Default: 'do_pings' => {
	   'cpunk-dsa' => 1,
	   'cpunk-rsa' => 1,
	   'cpunk-clear' => 1,
	   'mix' => 1
	  },

=item B<which_chainpings>

B<which_chainpings> controls some aspects of chain pinging.
It's a hash over chaintypes - currently B<mix> and B<cpunk>.
Each entry is a reference to an array which specifies the
preference for key types in that chaintype.

	Default: which_chainpings => {
	   'cpunk' => [ qw{cpunk-dsa cpunk-rsa cpunk-clear} ],
	   'mix' => [ qw{mix} ]
	  },

This means that in the case of cpunk chain pings we prefer
using cpunk-dsa over cpunk-rsa which in turn we prefer
to cpunk-clear.  For mix there's only mix.

=item B<pings_weight>

Not all pings have the same influence on the average reliability
calcluated.  Very new pings don't count fully since there is some
margin of error.  Similarly very old pings are not that interesting
either.

By default days 1 to 4 count fully (with weight 1), the older they
are the less they count.

	Default: pings_weight => [ qw{0.5 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 } ],

=back

=head2 TEMPLATES

=over

=item B<templates>

The template files are used to generate the HTML version of all Echolot output.
It is a hash of hashes which each have following keys:
B<thesaurusindexfile>,
B<mlist>,
B<mlist2>,
B<rlist>,
B<rlist-rsa>,
B<rlist-dsa>,
B<rlist-clear>,
B<rlist2>,
B<rlist2-rsa>,
B<rlist2-dsa>,
B<rlist2-clear>, and
B<clist>.

The outer hash keys are for language selection.

	Default: 'templates' => {
	    'default' => {
		    'thesaurusindexfile' => 'templates/thesaurusindex.html',
		    'mlist'              => 'templates/mlist.html',
		    'mlist2'             => 'templates/mlist2.html',
		    'rlist'              => 'templates/rlist.html',
		    'rlist-rsa'          => 'templates/rlist-rsa.html',
		    'rlist-dsa'          => 'templates/rlist-dsa.html',
		    'rlist-clear'        => 'templates/rlist-clear.html',
		    'rlist2'             => 'templates/rlist2.html',
		    'rlist2-rsa'         => 'templates/rlist2-rsa.html',
		    'rlist2-dsa'         => 'templates/rlist2-dsa.html',
		    'rlist2-clear'       => 'templates/rlist2-clear.html',
		    'clist'              => 'templates/clist.html',
	    },
	    'de' => { 
		   'thesaurusindexfile' => 'templates/thesaurusindex.de.html',
		   ....
	    },
	    'pl' => { 
		   'thesaurusindexfile' => 'templates/thesaurusindex.pl.html',
		   ....
	    }
	  };

=item B<echolot_css>

Location of the CSS file. This is copied to resultdir/echolot.css.

	Default: 'echolot_css'               => 'templates/echolot.css',

=back



=head2 STRINGS

=over

=item B<remailerxxxtext>

The text to send along with remailer-xxx queries.
The template variables address and operator_address are substituted for their
real values.

	Default: 'remailerxxxtext' => "Hello,\n".
	    "\n".
	    "This message requests remailer configuration data. The pinging software thinks\n".
	    "<TMPL_VAR NAME=\"address\"> is a remailer. Either it has been told so by the\n".
	    "maintainer of the pinger or it found the address in a remailer-conf or\n".
	    "remailer-key reply of some other remailer.\n".
	    "\n".
	    "If this is _not_ a remailer, you can tell this pinger that and it will stop\n".
	    "sending you those requests immediately (otherwise it will try a few more times).\n".
	    "Just reply and make sure the following is the first line of your message:\n".
	    "   not a remailer\n".
	    "\n".
	    "If you want to talk to a human please mail <TMPL_VAR NAME=\"operator_address\">.\n",

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Peter Palfrader E<lt>peter@palfrader.orgE<gt>

=head1 BUGS

Please report them at E<lt>URL:http://alioth.debian.org/projects/echolot/<gt>

=cut
